So now that we understood the problem and what state is,
how can we solve it?
How can we manage our state differently than just in our main widget in the main.dart file?
Now a pattern which is recommended by the Flutter team and which is really popular and also easy to learn
is the provider pattern which is added by adding a certain package to your app, the provider package.
So how does this work?
The idea here is that you have a global, a central store or data container in your app, data provider,
that's why it's called provider, which you attach to a widget in your app and that doesn't have to be
the root widget. Here it is but it doesn't have to be the MyApp widget, it can be any widget.
As soon as you added your provider, so this data container to a widget, all child widgets of that widget
can listen to that provider but without passing the data through their constructors, instead they can
add a listener with this of context trick by using this inherited widget which I mentioned earlier
which is a widget built into Flutter which we haven't used directly but which this provider package uses
indirectly to establish a direct communication channel between your widget that needs some data and
that data container which is attached to a totally different widget.
Now the build method for that widget where you attach the listener to or where you added the listener
to then runs whenever the state in that data provider changes but only the build method of that widget
where you listen to the change runs.
So if in our data provider here in this picture,
if the data in there changes, let's say the list of products we loaded, then we'll not reload or rebuild
all widgets we have here but instead in this picture here on this slide, we would only run the build
method in the single product widget because the single product widget in this picture here is the only
widget that set up a listener to our data provider. Now as I mentioned, you can have multiple providers
in the same app, multiple data containers and you can attach them to different or to the same widget
and it doesn't have to be the root widget.
So you could have a cart provider here attached to the cart and then you can also have multiple listeners
to one and the same provider, which also of course are then set up on different widgets that needs that
listener
and all these widgets will rebuild whenever this provider or the data you store in it
updates, whenever you update the data stored in that provider, in that container
so to say. That's the provider package and how you use it
in theory, let's now use it in practice to manage our products there.